README.md, before:


# PointND

A simple and flexible data structure for modelling points of 
**any** dimensions on an axis **without** the standard library.

This crate uses constant generics, it is recommended 
for use with a Rust version **>= 1.51**.

## Basic Usage

As ```PointND``` dereferences to a slice, all methods 
implemented for slices are also available with this

### Making a Point

```rust
// Creating a 2D point from a given array
let arr = [0,1];
let p = PointND::new(arr);

// Creating a 3D point from values of a given slice
let vec = vec![0, 1, 2];
let p = PointND::<_, 3>::from_slice(&vec);

// Creating a 4D point with all values set to 5
let p = PointND::<_, 4>::fill(5);
```

### Querying Values and Properties 

If the dimensions of the point are within ```1..=4```, it is 
recommended to use the convenience getters for accessing values.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0, 1]);

// As the point has 2 dimensions, we can access
//  it's values with the x() and y() methods
let x: &i32 = p.x();
let y = p.y();

assert_eq!(*x, arr[0]);
assert_eq!(*y, arr[1]);

// If the point had 3 dimensions, we could use the above and:
//  let z = p.z();
// Or with 4 dimensions, the above and:
//  let w = p.w();
```

The above methods are not implemented for PointND's with more than 4 dimensions. 

We must use indexing instead.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4,5]);

// ERROR: Not implemented for PointND of 6 dimensions
// let x = p.x();

let x: i32 = p[0];
let y = p[1];

// The dimension macros provided by this crate can make
//  direct indexing easier and more readable
// See the documentation for more info
let z = p[dim!(z)];
let the_rest = p[dimr!(w..)];
```

To get the dimensions of a point, use the ```dims()``` method.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0, 1, 2, 3]);

let dims: usize = p.dims();
assert_eq!(dims, 4);
```

### Transforming Values

If the dimensions of the point are within ```1..=4```, it is 
recommended to use the convenience setters for setting values.

```rust
let mut p = PointND::new([0, 1]);

// As the point has 2 dimensions, we can set
//  it's values with the set_x() and set_y() methods
// There are set_z() and set_w() methods available for
//  points with 3 and 4 dimensions respectively
p.set_x(-10);
p.set_y(-20);
```

The above methods are not implemented for PointND's with more than 4 dimensions. 

We must use indexing instead.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4]);

// ERROR: Not implemented for PointND of 5 dimensions
// p.set_x(1200);

p[0] = 1200;
// Or...
p[dim!(x)] = 1200;
```

Complex transformations can be made via functions passed to the ```apply```, 
```apply_vals```, ```apply_dims``` and ```apply_point``` methods. 

See the documentation for more info.

```rust
let add_ten = |i: i32| i + 10;
let double  = |i: i32| i * 2;
let sum     = |a: i32, b: i32| a + b;

let p1 = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4,5]);
let p2 = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4,5])
         // Adds ten to each item
         .apply(add_ten)
         // Doubles items at indexes 0, 1 and 2
         .apply_dims(&[0,1,2], double)
         // Does the same thing, just more readable
         .apply_dims(&dims![x,y,z], double)
         // Adds items in p2 to respective items in p1
         .apply_point(p1, sum);
```

### Iterating

Iterating over a ```PointND``` is as easy as:

```rust
let mut p = PointND::new([0,1]);

for _ in p.iter()      { /* Do stuff     */ }
for _ in p.iter_mut()  { /* Change stuff */ }
for _ in p.into_iter() { /* Move stuff (unless items implement Copy) */ }
```

## Contributing

Any suggestions for the codebase, documentation, README (or anything) are more than welcome!

If there are any problems or queries, please submit an issue on our Github page.

## License

This crate uses the MIT license.

Commit message:

rewrote docs and added links

README.md, after:


# PointND

A simple and flexible data structure for modelling points of 
**any** dimensions on an axis **without** the standard library.

This crate uses constant generics, it is recommended 
for use with a Rust version **>= 1.51**.

## Basic Usage

As `PointND` dereferences to a slice, all methods 
implemented for slices are also available with this

### Making a Point

```rust
// Creating a 2D point from a given array
let arr = [0,1];
let p = PointND::new(arr);

// Creating a 3D point from values of a given slice
let vec = vec![0, 1, 2];
let p = PointND::<_, 3>::from_slice(&vec);

// Creating a 4D point with all values set to 5
let p = PointND::<_, 4>::fill(5);
```

### Querying Values and Properties 

If the dimensions of the point are within `1..=4`, it is 
recommended to use the convenience getters for accessing values.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0, 1]);

// As the point has 2 dimensions, we can access
//  it's values with the x() and y() methods
let x: &i32 = p.x();
let y = p.y();

assert_eq!(*x, arr[0]);
assert_eq!(*y, arr[1]);

// If the point had 3 dimensions, we could use the above and:
//  let z = p.z();
// Or with 4 dimensions, the above and:
//  let w = p.w();
```

The above methods are not implemented for PointND's with more than 4 dimensions. 

We must use indexing instead. See the documentation for other crates which make 
direct indexing easier

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4,5]);

// ERROR: Not implemented for PointND of 6 dimensions
// let x = p.x();

let x: i32 = p[0];
let y = p[1];
```

To get the dimensions of a point, use the `dims` method.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0, 1, 2, 3]);

let dims: usize = p.dims();
assert_eq!(dims, 4);
```

### Transforming Values

If the dimensions of the point are within `1..=4`, it is 
recommended to use the convenience setters for setting values.

```rust
let mut p = PointND::new([0, 1]);

// As the point has 2 dimensions, we can set
//  it's values with the set_x() and set_y() methods
// There are set_z() and set_w() methods available for
//  points with 3 and 4 dimensions respectively
p.set_x(-10);
p.set_y(-20);
```

The above methods are not implemented for PointND's with more than 4 dimensions. 

We must use indexing instead.

```rust
let p = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4]);

// ERROR: Not implemented for PointND of 5 dimensions
// p.set_x(1200);

p[0] = 1200;
```

Complex transformations can be made via functions passed to the `apply`, 
`apply_vals`, `apply_dims` and `apply_point` methods. 

See the [documentation][docs] for more info.

```rust
let add_ten = |i: i32| i + 10;
let double  = |i: i32| i * 2;
let sum     = |a: i32, b: i32| a + b;

let p1 = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4,5]);
let p2 = PointND::new([0,1,2,3,4,5])
         // Adds ten to each item
         .apply(add_ten)
         // Doubles items at indexes 0, 1 and 2
         .apply_dims(&[0,1,2], double)
         // Adds items in p2 to respective items in p1
         .apply_point(p1, sum);
```

### Iterating

Iterating over a `PointND` is as easy as:

```rust
let mut p = PointND::new([0,1]);

for _ in p.iter()      { /* Do stuff     */ }
for _ in p.iter_mut()  { /* Change stuff */ }
for _ in p.into_iter() { /* Move stuff (unless items implement Copy) */ }
```

## Contributing

Any suggestions for the codebase, documentation, README (or anything) are more than welcome!

If there are any problems or queries, please submit an issue in our [GitHub repo][repo].

## Changelog

The full list of API changes can be found in our [GitHub repo][changelog].

## License

This crate is available under the [`MIT`][mit-license] 
and/or [`Apache2.0`][apache-license] licenses.

[docs]: https://docs.rs/point-nd/0.5.0/point_nd/

[repo]: https://github.com/taennan/point-nd/tree/main
[changelog]: https://github.com/taennan/point-nd/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md
[mit-license]: https://github.com/taennan/point-nd/blob/main/LICENSE-MIT
[apache-license]: https://github.com/taennan/point-nd/blob/main/LICENSE-APACHE

[axmac]: https://crates.io/crates/axmac
